Codbook
Experiment background: The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz were captured. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 

Raw data
Each record provided:
- Triaxial acceleration from the accelerometer (total acceleration) and the estimated body acceleration.
- Triaxial Angular velocity from the gyroscope. 
- A 561-feature vector with time and frequency domain variables. 
- Its activity label. 
- An identifier of the subject who carried out the experiment.
- Features are normalized and bounded within [-1,1].
- Each feature vector is a row on the text file.

Processed data
Of the 561 features only means and std dev are part of the scope of this analysis. The 68 variables used are the subjects, the activities , the 33 mean variables and the 33 std dev variables. The training and test sets were merged to produce one set for the analysis.
Subject: is a numeric value identifying each of the 30 participants.
Activity: The numeric values representing activities were replaced with the description of the activity ( 1 WALKING, 2 WALKING_UPSTAIRS, 3 WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, 4 SITTING, 5 STANDING, 6 LAYING).
The raw features names meet the following rules:
t -> time domain signals
f -> frequency domain signals
Acc -> acceleration signal
Gravity -> gravity acceleration
Jerk -> Jerk signal
Mag ->  Magnitud 

Variables name containing Mag were modified to eliminate the double “Body” string.
The strings -mean() and -std() were replaced by Mean and Stddev in the new tidy data set.

All these features were normalized and bounded [-1,1] . Thus no units.





 


